This recording and this transcript is
going to serve as training data for
refactoring the layer one process for the
business value, business case,
application, and code.
So usually the first step that the human
or the business value analyst in this
example achieves,
usually the first step is we get a file
from the customer. Now,
in this example here, you see
It's an RV tools file,
and there could be many different flavors
of RV tools files that we'll get,
and we have to be able to adapt to all
those different flavors and use
assumptions.
or fallback mechanisms if need be,
if all of the full information is not
there. Very typically,
the RV Tools files that we'll get will
not be like what you see here.
This is a full RV Tools export with all
of the tabs.
Some are required,
some are optional or not required,
but when we ask a customer to send us an
RV tools file, we say,
if you could please minimally include the
V info tab.
with all the VMs and all the metadata.
The V host tab with all of the V all of
the physical hosts that are hosting the
VMs and their metadata and the V
partition tab for all of the storage
metadata related to what is attached to.
the hosts and being utilized by the VMs.
That's the minimum that we usually
require. So in other words,
do not rely on there being vCPU or
vMemory there.
We have to be able to adapt to at least
the minimum.
that we ask customers. However,
sometimes customers will not send us even
that.
They may send us only the V info tab with
VM names.
Sometimes the VM names are redacted and
they'll just have in the column.
Not necessarily column A,
but in this example, let's say, yes,
in column A is the VM name.
Sometimes customers will take the VM name
and redact it to just a number or
something random. We need to be able to...
adapt to that situation as well.
Another aspect is utilization telemetry
or utilization metadata in either the
vinfo and or the vhost and or vpartition
if we end up getting vhost or vpartition.
Ideally, that utilization data,
and in particular for CPUs,
memory and obviously the storage.
For the CPUs,
sometimes there's utilization data in
there. In this vinfo tab,
it does not look like we have utilization
for the CPUs.
So the objective of having utilization
for the CPUs is to be able to right size.
And the right size is for the future
state Azure Virtual Machine mapping.
to a least cost Azure virtual machine
mapping that's ideally right-sized to how
that the on-premise, in other words,
the VMs that are on-prem that we've been
provided the RV tools export of how it's
being used, at least in that snapshot.
If we don't have that,
then we have to have an assumption or
fallback percentage of utilization,
and that can be codified in the app.
The same thing goes for memory.
Now,
memory in the RV tools is generally
provided in a MIB or MIB format.
We need to be able to...
convert that to gigabytes decimal so that
the retail pricing API for Azure can be
mapped to how it expects the unit
conversions to be in gigabytes.
Now for storage,
there are two things that we need to
collect for storage.
One is for the on-premise.
portion of a total cost of ownership
model or a business case.
We need to account for all the physical
infrastructure that's on in the data
center that's on-premise,
because the customer paid for it,
it is depreciating the full extent of
that infrastructure. So,
for the purposes of...
the on-premise counts,
we use the provision MIB metadata per VM
in vInfo.
And for the overall amount of storage,
now granted,
each VM has its own amount of storage in
there. And as you see,
it is in MIB format.
So that would need to be converted to
gigabytes, decimal,
for ultimately in the next layer.
which is not this recording,
for the lookup in the least cost VM
matching using the retail,
the Azure Retail Price API.
But we also need to capture the in use
MIB, the in use storage,
have to do the same GB decimal conversion.
This tells us the utilization of that
storage.
So that will need to be put away for,
again, the next major step,
the next layer.
of the business case development for
finding managed disk sizes to meet the in
use MIB, but in gigabytes decimal for.
for price matching in the Azure Retail
Price API.
So we need to be able to collect both.
And also note, this is important,
that do not assume that it's going to be
in these column locations.
You have to look for.
the title or something close to that
title. It might say provisioned,
it might say capacity,
it may or may not include MIB in the
title,
but assume that if it came from RV Tools,
it is MIB.
format. And same thing with in use.
Usually it's in use,
it may or may not include the MIB.
Maybe it might say utilized.
So we have to use similar keywords or
analogous keywords to find the right
columns that we're looking for.
Can't always assume it's going to say
provisioned MIB or in use MIB.
So, similar here in VHost,
in VHost we have all of the physical
hosts.
Uh, one thing that...
We'll talk about this in the next layer
in the next recording when we talk about
Azure pricing.
using the Azure Retail Price API for
doing the least cost Azure VM mapping.
So we may or may not have the data,
may or may not have the vHost tab.
There's a lot of data in here.
Here we actually do see CPU usage,
so utilization of that physical host.
Although it's debatable as to whether we
can apply the CPU usage percentage or
some analogous term for that from the V
host,
if we were provided a V host to apply.
to those VMs running on that host.
That's one way to do it,
and we should calculate it and present
that out to the business analyst that is
running the business case development in
the application.
There's also other metadata that we'll be
capturing,
but we'll talk about that in the next
section, so...
The.
Yeah, I think those are,
I think those are the key.
metadata in vHost if we were given vHost.
Um...
Yeah,
and then obviously there's a lot of data
in the V partition across all the drives
and the partitions on the drives as they
pertain to what's attached to the
physical host related back to the VMs.
So the summary here is,
is we have to be able to.
Oh,
and we also want to collect all the VMs
for the on-premise inventory.
So powered on and powered off needs to be
collected and counted in the overall
inventory.
Again, why?
Because they've already paid for that
infrastructure,
and irrespective of whether it's sitting
there in a powered off state,
it's still there depreciating.
It will be a different situation for the
next layer of processing for doing the
least cost Azure VM mapping.
in the Azure Retail Price API.